Now imagine a friend of yours just finished high school and
asked you to write a Java program to help him calculate the total average grade.
The average grade is simply the total sum of
grades divided by the number of subjects graded.
However, your friend only knows four of his five subjects' grade so far.
So for now the average can be calculated by adding
all those grades for those four subjects divided by four.
Once you write the program that would calculate the average for those four subjects,
it should be really easy to add this fifth subject into the average calculation.
Let's start by declaring and initializing a variable for each subject.
Notice that some grades are fractions.
So to stay consistent Let's declare them all as doubles.
Now, we need to calculate the sum of all these grades and store that in a variable.
These variables should also be a double.
Let's call it 'sum' and set it to equal to the sum of all those four grades.
Then finally to calculate the average,
we simply need to divide this sum by four and store the result into the variable average.
Now let's try to print this variable average and see what the result is.
The output of such program would be 88.5. That sounds about right.
Now, say your friend has finally got his grade for the missing fifth subject.
I've written down all the details in a comment in the code next.
Try to modify this program to calculate the new average of all five subjects.
Remember to start by declaring a new variable for
that fifth subject and then add it to the average calculation.